[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> I'm Barbara Marx Hubbard.
Welcome to a New
Species of Co-creators.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"We hold these truths
to be self-evident--
all people are born
creative, endowed
by our creator with
the inalienable right
and responsibility to
express and connect
our creativity for
the good of ourselves
and the whole of
Earth's family."
I was feeling depressed.
And I felt guilty
because I was depressed.
First of all, I was well-off,
and I was taken care of well.
And secondly, I realized
that in the United States,
our goal was life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness.
So the first thing
was that I decided
to see if I could find somebody
who was happy in Lakeville,
Connecticut--
I mean, really happy.
So I called on all my different
friends with, tell me--
are you really happy?
And if so, what's
happiness really like?
And the friend said,
well, I'm comfortable.
I'm OK.
I'm a little bit depressed
about x, y, or z.
And I couldn't find anybody
who was really happy.
And then I reinvented
Thomas Jefferson.
We hold these truths
to be self-evident--
that all people are free.
I said, oh.
Let's say it in a new way.
All people are being
creative, endowed
by our creator with
this inalienable right
and responsibility to
express our creativity
for the good of ourselves
and the whole human family.
And how come I'm not doing it?
Why am I depressed?
So I was fortunate to read
a book that changed my life.
It's a book by Abraham Maslow.
And it's called "Toward
a Psychology of Being."
He's the first psychiatrist
in modern times
to study wellness
rather than illness.
And he went to see what
makes a person happy.
And he called it
"self-actualizing."
That was his word for well-off,
fulfilled, actualizing
potential.
And here was his
simple description.
Every self-actualizing person
has one thing in common--
chosen work that they find
intrinsically self-rewarding
and of service to
at least one other.
That's about the
best description
of what makes a person feel
fulfilled and happy that I
had ever read.
And when I read
it, I realized, now
I know what's wrong with me.
I don't have a vocation.
>> Now I feel confident
because I did not 10 years ago.
We have a new image of man.
We have a new image of society.
And I think I place first.
And then out of this, we
have a new image of religion.
That's a real revolution.
>> Abraham Maslow
gave this advice.
Be bold.
Do what attracts you.
So at that time,
it appeared to me
that there was only one
thing that attracted me.
It was Abraham Maslow himself.
So I thought, OK.
I'll be bold.
I'll call him up and
invite him for lunch.
So I did.
And I was in Connecticut.
And I said, I would
meet you in New York.
I want to take you to lunch.
You have saved my life.
And I wrote him a
very good letter
about how I had been looking
for purpose and so forth.
So he came to lunch.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And I told him this
yearning in my heart
for greater purpose, actually.
And I realized he gave
me what I was missing,
which was to call it vocation.
And vocation is unique
to every person.
It's what really you do
best, what you're born to do.
It's not just a job.
It's not just any old thing.
It's what you do best.
And I didn't know what it was.
But Maslow said,
I think, Barbara,
that you represent life.
I want to give you something.
And he gave me a list of 300
names of prominent people.
He called it the Eupsychian
Good Soul Network.
And he said, I just want to
give them to you because maybe
you'll know what to do.
So I go back to
Lakeville, Connecticut,
on the train with 300 names--
Ervin László, Thomas Merton, all
these really marvelous people.
I had not met anybody.
So what should I do?
And here's what I
thought of doing.
I'm going to write
them all a letter.
And I'm going to ask
each one of them, what
do you think is the next
step for the future good
of humanity?
And I will publish what
you write to me if I really
like it.
And I will create a
newsletter on your idea
of what the next step is.
I called it the "center letter."
I typed it up myself.
I mailed it from
Limerock, Connecticut,
and put this letter in
the mail to 300 people.
And I started to get letters.
People responded.
Oh, what a good idea.
Oh, here's what I
think, and on and on.
And one of them who appeared in
person was Lancelot Law Whyte.
He wrote "The Next
Development in Man."
And Lancelot Law Whyte
began to really delve
into the philosophy behind
evolutionary thought.
And he became a very deep
friend and colleague.
And so I would say I
recognize that my vocation is
to discover and express
that which is emergent,
that which is created
in other people
and in the world as a whole.
And I crossed over
into the new species--
from the depressed
housewife in Lakeville
with the five children
and a wonderful husband,
crossed over because that
inner impulse inside me
was turned on.
And I knew how to do
something about it--
not everything, but something.
Now, I want to say that for
every single person on Earth,
there is an impulse there.
And it's not so easy.
If you don't know what it is,
do what attracts you first,
even if it's not it.
Because what attracts
you will take you
to something else
that attracts you.
Don't jump off a cliff.
Don't do something radical.
I invited somebody to lunch.
You do that which attracts you.
And I would swear
without any doubt
inside of you is that
unique, creative vocation.
I love my husband, my
children, my house, my garden.
But vocation is
something deeper.
It's your calling.
It is given to you, I feel,
by that impulse of evolution,
which is uniquely you.
Most people might definitely
feel that their vocation is
to pay the bills to stay alive.
But here's the thing--
how you're going to
be paying the bills.
If you can possibly find
and include in your day
that which has turned
you on to do it,
that which gives you vocational
arousal, what will happen
is you'll probably be better
at that than you are at doing
something you don't care about.
And as old jobs
are fading away--
for very good reason because
they're repetitive and robotic,
and yes it's true robots are
taking over robotic work--
over here is entrepreneurship.
Over here is creativity.
Over here is uniqueness.
Over here is saying yes to
that life impulse within you.
And your yes can change more of
the world and give more to you
than you're doing that
which is not yours to do.
I want you to do a simple thing.
Invite one, two,
three, or more friends
together and visually
tell them about the spiral
of evolution and the wheel.
Just tell them in five minutes.
And tell them
they're going to sit
at the heart of the
hub of the wheel.
And tell them that that
impulse of evolution
that goes from single cell
to multi-cell to animal
is going through them.
Now, they may not believe
you, but it's true.
So eventually you learn to be
a communicator, number one.
Then, while you're
sitting in a small circle,
here's a question that you ask
yourself and each other person.
It's a very simple question.
What is my deepest
heart's desire?
You will discover that
almost nobody knows.
They know, yes, I have a job.
Yes, I am interested in
geology or yes, this or that.
But deepest heart's
desire is hidden
in a very interesting way.
It only seems to want to come
out in a field of resonance.
Now, the two or three or
more resonance is resounding.
So I'm not saying my
deepest heart's desire
to somebody who's not
paying attention to me.
I almost can't do it.
But if I'm here
with you, and I feel
that you're
empathetic with me, I
find that it's like
I can hear something.
Oh, my deepest heart's desire--
you know what it is?
And then I'll tell.
My deepest heart's
desire is I want
to be on a huge internet
program on the new news.
I want to have all the people
with something new to tell.
And I'll tell this.
Meanwhile, the people listening
to me-- they say, really?
Wow.
My deepest heart's desire is--
and then they'll
bring out something
that they didn't fully,
fully think before.
And we go around.
And then what happens is because
they're in a resonant field
together, they fall in
love with each other.
So resonance creates
a field of love
which gives you the capacity to
tune in to your deepest heart's
desire.
It's because you
can't just do it
in the service of
your mental mind.
Now here's the second question.
Once people start to get
their deepest heart's desire
and they're feeling
resonance and love,
the next question is, what is
my unique genius to realize
my deepest heart's desire?
Here's a really
interesting secret.
Your genius code stays hidden
until your deepest heart's
desire is revealed.
And then out of that
deepest heart's desire
comes unique genius
that you might not
have even noticed before
because it doesn't come out
in daily life.
You don't get a job for it.
You don't necessarily get
paid for it right away.
But let's say it is your
deepest heart's desire,
like mine to create a
planetary birth experience.
Once I say it, then
I begin to learn
more of how to do it
because my deepest
heart's desire kind of unfurls.
And since I know it is in
the nature of evolution,
it is growing forward, not
only just by myself alone.
But then what happens is
it happens to everybody
else in the small group.
Their heart's desire
starts to come out.
And I can tell
you that if you're
sitting at the heart of the hub
of the wheel with a few friends
doing that, and you're willing
to continue to do it and start
describing it, and if you're
part of a community that
wants to know more, I would
say, of other co-creators,
you can become a
co-creator by doing this.
It's simple.
And then you step
out, and you go
into planetary DNA, which is
the next turn on that spiral.
And you say, I am going
to start communicating
this on television, which
actually I'm doing right now.
I am doing my heart's
desire right now.
Oh, other people will do
their heart's desire wherever,
because the universe
is open to your yes.
You have to try it out.
I said, yes, I'm going
to call Abraham Maslow.
He said yes.
I wrote to all these
different people.
They said yes.
And you don't know
where the yes is.
And this yes is very,
very interesting.
I call it internally
"the compass of joy."
So there's a lot that
you do that isn't joyful.
But when you find your deepest
heart's desire and the genius
code in you that is awakened by
that, you're going to feel joy.
You're going to
feel enthusiastic.
You're going to feel creative.
You're going to feel,
wow, I'm excited.
I call that whole set of
feelings your compass of joy.
Now, over here is your
compass of stress.
I'm not doing what I like.
It's not going to work,
boom, boom, boom, boom.
OK.
You could stay there
if you want to.
But you could stop, because
here's where choice comes in.
If you just choose
because now you
know that you have a
compass of joy that
includes this kind of behavior,
you know enough to do it again.
Now, what happens is after
a while of saying yes,
the compass of joy
becomes a way of life.
Now, that might sound
overly idealistic.
But here's why it
isn't idealistic.
It's realistic.
The realism is that
nature's impulse to create--
if we've seen it for
billions of years--
that impulse is going to greater
consciousness, more freedom,
more complex order.
It actually is attracting
you to find out
how you have more consciousness,
more freedom, and more order.
Now, how you do it is
your compass of joy
because it only is you.
So in my case, for example,
I'm a communicator more
than I'm a writer, for example.
Now, I write in my
journal every single day.
And I'll tell you what I do.
I learned to say,
mental mind, here's
the situation, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
This is over here, doesn't work.
Then over here, I say, dearly
beloved, tell me what it means.
And I turn on higher mind,
and I write without thinking.
It's like I can speak
without thinking
when I'm in higher mind.
I speak, but it's not
that I speak gibberish.
I speak the best
I've ever spoken
if I'm coming from deep mind.
So you will discover it not only
in the small group, not only
your compass of joy,
but your journal.
And you then begin to
ask with your mental mind
when something doesn't
feel right and something is
awkward or difficult or painful
to you, write it clearly.
And then I use double
quotation marks.
I say, tell me what this means.
And I'm calling on that.
You can call it anything
you want to call it.
I call it "dearly beloved."
Dearly beloved.
I've written 202
volumes of journal.
I'm really good at this.
The reason I know what
you do is because I ask.
And what comes out sometimes
from dearly beloved
is such a clear
description of what
to do that I then
bring in mental mind.
It says, really?
Well, I didn't know that.
Then dearly beloved
speaks again.
So you will find inside of you
the compass of joy if you ask.
I learned that when higher
mind describes the response
to my question of what to
do where I'm not feeling
comfortable, the higher mind
has the ability to explain it
in such a way that I relax.
And it's like the
word "epiphany."
An epiphany is an "a-ha."
Now, even if it's
not right there
going to make you feel better,
if you know, let's say,
that you've been
cruel to somebody
and you have caused
that person to hurt you,
maybe you didn't
know or didn't want
to admit that you
had hurt somebody.
So the a-ha is, oh,
I was inadvertently
cruel to somebody.
So what you do is
you stop mental mind.
Call somebody up.
Write somebody a letter
and get together.
OK.
And then you go back to journal.
Well, you know what happened?
You're writing now, you see.
I did call somebody
up, and we met.
And guess what?
This person was waiting
for me to call, et cetera.
So you enter into a profound
dialogue within yourself.
So I have discovered
that I like to talk.
That's my vocation.
But I might want to talk
all by myself to myself.
Now, I have to find somebody
who is interested in what
I'm talking about.
So let's say I find one or
two that really gets excited
when they hear me.
So what happens to me
when this person gets
excited by what I'm doing,
particularly if this person
says, I've been
longing to hear this,
I was hoping to find this out,
you feel vocational arousal.
Now, vocational arousal is the
next step after sexual arousal.
When you would like to go to bed
with somebody-- sexual arousal.
Vocational arousal-- you want
to create with that person.
You want to not
procreate, but co-create.
And you become a co-creator
through vocational arousal.
And if you can find somebody
whose genius actually activates
your genius, you begin to join
genius with this other person.
And I believe that
out of joining genius
comes a new human and a
new species eventually--
not just from doing it once,
but the finding of somebody
whose unique calling needs
your unique expression
of your own unique calling and
that together, you join genius.
The explosion of energy there
is enough to bring forth in you
the newness that you are.
It's like if sperm
doesn't hit egg.
You're not going to
get the new baby.
So if the geniuses
don't join just right,
you may not discover the newness
that you intrinsically are.
And you begin to
be more than you
were when you came together.
And not only that, you
get vocational arousal.
And you have what I'm calling
"suprasexual co-creation."
So let's assume for
the moment that nature
is inventing something
as great as sex
to get us to join genius.
Now, there's a big
thought right there.
Well, nature would have
to invent something
to get us to join genius.
And I want to go back
just for a moment
to the first single cells.
I don't know if
anybody knows it,
but single cells existed for
a couple of billion years
before anything else.
And they were doing great.
But solar energy came in,
burned up the single cells,
and they had to divide.
And then they had
to join each other
to handle the solar energy.
I'm making a very
complex story short.
And in order to
do that, they had
to invent sexuality,
because they couldn't
divide to reproduce any more.
Well, you know the
history of sexuality.
There's a huge
journey of sexuality
that entities have developed,
all kinds of sexuality.
So I'm making a
huge statement here.
When nature doesn't
need more babies
with only chosen
children, over here,
what does nature really need?
New humans.
Nature really needs
better people.
Nature needs people capable
of doing their best.
And if nature is over
here creating sexuality
because you have to fall in
love with somebody to have
that baby, over here, if you
really want to join genius
and you want to participate
in suprasexual co-creation,
you have to find geniuses
that turn you on.
You have to find others
whose vocation arouses you.
You have to find
others who you arouse.
And the nature of
suprasexual co-creation
is a tremendous
liberation of genius.
And out of it comes
lots of new people.
And if I can just take a
projection of my highest goal,
it would be a
planetary experience
of vocational arousal.
If you could think for this
moment of the number of people
on this planet
who would actually
like to connect with you
to do what you want to do,
and there are thousands of
them, and you come together
in clusters, and you're
turning on the world,
did you still think we're going
to run out of energy and die?
No.
Through suprasex, we're going
to evolve and co-create.
And if we do that together,
you have a new species.
And as that keeps
growing, there's
a juiciness that starts to
happen into people's lives.
And what happens to them is
they start to get healthier.
They start to live longer.
Now, look at me.
I'm 88 years old.
How am I doing this?
Let's talk about
health and epigenetics.
And we know epigenetics,
invented by Bruce Lipton,
is the idea that
the DNA of your cell
is affected by the consciousness
that you are feeling.
In other words,
you affect and turn
on or off the DNA
code of intelligence
by the surrounding
consciousness.
So here is an
assumption I'm making--
that if you are turned on
by your vocational arousal
and joining genius and your
enthusiastic enthusiasm filled
with godhood, what happens
is that your cells say,
oh, let's keep it
going for a while.
Oh, she's got more to do.
Oh, she's excited.
So the DNA, as you age, if
you start joining genius
to become more of who
you are and to give
more of your creativity
into the world,
you will find that
your DNA is very likely
to make you feel emergent.
And some people
say to me, Barbara,
do you feel older or younger?
And I say, no, I feel newer.
And I mean really newer.
Because if you're joining genius
here, you are getting newer.
Just like you for
joining genes, you're
going to have a new baby, if
you join genius, this happens.
So I'd like to take a jump here
to what education could really
become.
Instead of going
to say, I'm going
to go and take this course
or this course or this course
and get a job here and
there and elsewhere, I
would love to see these
wonderful institutions develop
that into, what is
your passion to create?
What is your greatest vocation?
Who else needs what
you have to give?
And we start to do
vocational arousal
at an educational level.
And what would come from
this is awesome intelligence.
So what happens when you're 50?
And it used to be old.
It used to be that
women over 50 felt
they were getting
less beautiful,
that they were
getting near death.
They might have been a
grandparent of many children,
but it was not the highest
point in your life.
Now it's a very different story.
When a woman gets to
be 50, she probably
doesn't have five
to ten children.
Very few of us do.
She might have one or two.
I had five.
But I got to 50, and the five
children were all flourishing.
And I'm 50 years old.
And what happened to me?
I had no more eggs.
I realized I'm the egg.
What I discovered is I wanted
to give birth to something
creative that I wanted to do.
And that's actually
when I met Jonas Salk,
and I read Pierre du Chardin.
And I discovered
that I have inside
myself this desire of
conscious evolution.
And once I then said,
I'm going to give birth
to this consciousness
as I would give birth
to a baby, what
happens to a woman is
she nurtures that impulse--
a little bit
differently than a man
does sometimes
because she doesn't
have to be competitive with it.
It's like if you get pregnant,
you don't have to say,
I hope it's a better
baby than anybody else.
It's a baby.
A woman's body is actually
capable of producing a baby.
So I am just assuming that in
regenopause, a woman's body
is capable of producing
creativity that
has a quality of
gentle lovingness
that is more difficult
for a man to have.
It's not that men don't have it.
But they don't have the
body because, really, they
are projecting.
They are winning.
They are saving.
They are handling
things, whereas women
are being taken care of.
And they're having
babies and all of this.
So then they're 50, 60, 70,
80, and they're not dying.
Regenopause-- I realized
when I was about 60,
this is a new phase
of life that I'm in.
And there's no limit to
how old I need to be.
There's no limit to what I'm
supposed to have accomplished.
Nobody actually knows what
I should do at 70 or 80.
And so a woman has
the freedom to just do
more of what's creative.
And of course, she
meets other women.
Now, if she's really lucky,
she meets an evolutionary man.
And maybe she wants one.
But that evolutionary man
needs to have discovered
his own evolutionary potential.
It's not like they're coming
together to procreate.
They're coming
together to co-create.
And if you are fortunate enough
to be in regenopause, giving
birth to that seedling
which is your own,
and you meet a man
who's also giving birth
to the seedling that
is his own, and then
you join together
for a shared purpose,
you become truly blessed.
And you become energized.
And you become filled
with excitement.
So when you say yes to
this, and you're saying yes
to your own DNA that is
wanting to do more, love
more, and create more, and
you're getting older and older,
but your body is being
affected by the DNA which
knows there's more to
do, I don't feel any age.
Now, my body is older.
There's no doubt about it.
But my impulse is not.
And one's impulse
is not age-related.
If it's authentically
what you want to become.
and do, this can happen
to a teenager sometimes.
It can happen to a young
woman, like my granddaughter.
But it can happen to
an 88-year-old woman.
So in a way, the age-relatedness
seems to disappear here.
And along with that
comes life extension.
So you're not dying necessarily.
And if the people
are right saying
we can extend life
for x number of years,
then the creativity
can be extended.
And maybe this is
what the planet needs.
The new species of
co-creators are creators.
And they are creating what they
are uniquely gifted to create.
And if you can imagine
an entire species
with individuals
discovering life purpose,
saying yes, and creating it
in every field of endeavor
connected--
in health, education, economics,
science, and technology--
with the new technologies,
you know what, folks?
We're the new species.